George Haikal: It will be good. Okay.
George Haikal: all right. Thank you all for recovering. So this will be really short and sweet. But it's this workshop is only given by
George Haikal: from Texas, Chicago. And now the program manager of Brad's program with Northwestern
George Haikal: so real quick. How's everyone feeling videos?
George Haikal: We think they had some fun last night. That was the rumor.
George Haikal: So Anthony Libra was a d 1 pitcher at Northwestern 1st time there and gave us this talk based on his incredible athletic career. Super cool. But last time around she was too busy with sourcing to do this talk. So I've sort of co-opted it since. My qualifications include
George Haikal: I did switch to you
George Haikal: in a suit at 6 Am. On a Saturday. I really hated it like, hated it, but procrastinated schedule was a mess, but I learned some really good last minute conversation techniques which I'll cover at the end.
George Haikal: I was also a coxswain, so I loved rowing. This was my favorite thing all through high school college. Apparently you love 6 am. Too. Yeah, 6 am really really busy.
George Haikal: but those big, long crew boys boats with all the boys. I was the one who shouted the back and and sued the boats. They had these little speakers under their seats. I had this beautiful mic
George Haikal: headset situation that left hand lines on your forehead.
George Haikal: In high school I was set to go to nationals. I was going to college for this. It was really, really into it
George Haikal: in college and parallel in the Uk. Obviously the biggest breakout is in Europe
George Haikal: all over from the Internet to London. Okay, thank you.
George Haikal: This was my thing to the point of both my college essay and my Llc. Being called big mouth.
George Haikal: So State of Delaware, big Mouth, Llc. Mine.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: rowing sprint races are weirdly similar to yellow pitches. There's money online, a full set of boat riggers or slams at around 80 K. The whole situation is a team effort, but in the moment only one person can see. So all the rowers are blind when you're steering a boat. Only the CEO is on stage driving that progress in that moment, and you have to communicate an enormous amount of information in a very short time.
George Haikal: A rowing race is also conveniently right around 6 min, just like your pitches, and represents weeks, months, or years of work.
George Haikal: No pressure.
George Haikal: So gonna do a little thought exercise. Here, take a look at this picture, plan it in your head.
George Haikal: And now humor me here, close your eyes
George Haikal: alright. I want you to imagine that you are in the Google product Launch room.
George Haikal: You're in the back of the auditorium and the buzz of the other Ceos in the green room is behind you.
George Haikal: You watch as the founder before you is just finishing their closing statement.
George Haikal: They start to walk off the stage, and the music you chose comes on. I want you to hear it.
George Haikal: As you get up and start to walk on stage, you can hear the buzz and muttering of over a hundred people there to watch
George Haikal: you walk into the spotlight in the dimly lit room, and as you reach your position the music fades and the room goes silent.
George Haikal: All eyes are directly on you.
George Haikal: It's game time.
George Haikal: Stop, all right, open your eyes. How do you feel?
George Haikal: I'm stressed.
George Haikal: Yeah.
George Haikal: So that's service.
George Haikal: Yeah, excellent.
George Haikal: Alright. So this nerve, these nerves, the stress like, what does that physically feel like for you guys?
George Haikal: Butterflies, heart racing butterflies?
George Haikal: Yeah, in the chest. Tightness. Yeah, yeah.
George Haikal: So a lot of these are are symptoms of stress. Here.
George Haikal: You feel these things good. You should thank you
George Haikal: all for for humoring me with this exercise. This is your body stress response. When you're in a stressful situation, your adrenal glands release 2 hormones into your bloodstream adrenaline and cortisol.
George Haikal: It's not just nerves. These hormones materially alter your physiological state.
George Haikal: So your stomach turning. That's your digestion, slowing down to conserve energy, fast breathing. That's upping your oxygen. Intake the accelerated heart rate.
George Haikal: providing your muscles and brain with extra oxygen sweating. It's cooling you off while you exert more energy.
George Haikal: Good! Y'all remember snow from the sales workshop.
George Haikal: Okay, this stress response is primal. We evolved these physiological responses to respond to threats like bears.
George Haikal: These hormones prepare your body to run from a bear.
George Haikal: If you weren't well equipped to run when you saw a bear back in the day, you wouldn't make it very far, and you wouldn't be able to pass along your genes, so I'm sure you're all well familiar with the concept of fight or flight. The hormones that prepare you to run from bears are the same ones that prepare you to fight for your food. So fight or flight.
George Haikal: This state of hormonal elevation is super important. So let's run back those symptoms.
George Haikal: The way you feel when you're anxious from a perceived threat, is actually the same state your body goes into when you feel excitement.
George Haikal: just like our ancestors were scared to see bears. They were excited to see food, and they had to fight for it. So Dave kind of hit on that earlier.
George Haikal: When people say they're nervous for a big performance, or they have an adrenaline rush from an exciting activity. They rarely describe them in the same way, but they're almost entirely the same from physiological point of view. The only real difference is dopamine.
George Haikal: What's not the most comfortable feeling your body stress response is a superpower. It's kind of like switching yourself into sport mode. It prepares your body and mind to operate at a high level when you need it the most, so you can be your own everyday hero.
George Haikal: When you're in this heightened state, you have a whole bunch of options you can. I'm going to share a few from both me and Anthony, but it's important to pay attention to yourself and use the mental language that works for you and develop your own strategies.
George Haikal: So here's how Anthony thinks about it. When he's throwing a season deciding game, he leads with self understanding. So your body's trying to protect you that fight or flight response. Your body and mind are in a heightened state, so that adrenaline and cortisol and he ends with redirection. So focus grounding acknowledgement that your physiological state does not change your task, and you are prepared.
George Haikal: and you can rely on the work you put in. Thus far
George Haikal: Annie's doing me wrong by not being here.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: this is Anthony's. My approach is a little less polished. Going back to the mental language thing, so
George Haikal: different variations. Different language works for different people.
George Haikal: the best way to describe how I think about it is probably framing, but I really think about it in my brain as self gaslighting or manipulating the placebo effect.
George Haikal: even today, this is the second time I'm doing this workshop. I'm no workshop bet a little stressed, but I like to treat it like I'm smarter than my monkey brain, and just tell myself I'm not afraid and impose the thoughts I want to have over the thoughts I do have while maintaining that existing energy and physiological state.
George Haikal: So for you, this could look like reframing pressure as preparedness.
George Haikal: and you could be thinking like, Oh, I've spent months or years working on this business. There's so much writing on this or reframing it. I've spent months or years working on this business. I'm so excited to share it with the world.
George Haikal: Do you mind going back to the Anthony, the 3 A's or the Aaf? Yeah. So
George Haikal: I remember when he gave this talk
George Haikal: the way that he does this this part in particular is that he'll pause and take a really deep breath.
George Haikal: and then he'll like literally say these 3 things to himself, and then
George Haikal: either speak or step up or go.
George Haikal: So I think like that's like an important part of like that practice of saying these 2 things to yourself.
George Haikal: Another little thing I like to hit on. I love visualization and use it all the time the night before. Every race like from my 1st one to to 5 years in when I've done it half a hundred times I would sit down with my race plan or script and a map of the race course, and I close my eyes and run the race in my head. This 6 min race would take me 20 or 30 min to fully visualize through.
George Haikal: and just like the exercise we did earlier, I would think about the starting line. I would think about everything. I would hear the race marshals yelling everything I would say, steering adjustments I would need to make to get lined up, and the feeling of tension in my back as I sort of set myself up
George Haikal: embrace myself.
George Haikal: I'd hear the starting horn, the lift in the boat. Every single word I'd say during the race
George Haikal: where my competition was. The speed updates the wind in my face. So I I would also
George Haikal: make myself feel the feeling of relief as I got across the finish line. I'd be physically tired after this, and would have to actively like unclench my back.
George Haikal: By the time I got to the starting line I feel like I had already done the race.
George Haikal: So all that nervous energy that I had was easily rechanneled into excitement for something I had had already happened and been decided. It's like, I know that the outcome is going to be great. I know I'm going to execute because I did it already.
George Haikal: I highly recommend visualization. If you don't already do it. I know my mental language of self gaslighting, or whatever might not work for you. But founders have said that this helps. So, Liliana, let me keep it in.
George Haikal: It's not perfect the way I'm thinking about it might not work for you the way Anthony thinks about it might not work for you.
George Haikal: But we're just trying to give you something to work with
George Haikal: human stress. Responses aren't perfect, either. We're sort of in need of a physiological update. It's a few 1,000 years overdue.
George Haikal: We don't face the same threats that we
George Haikal: today that we used to, and we don't get excited by all the same things either. So the ideal physiological state for running and fighting is not the same ideal physiological state for public speaking or pitching to investors
George Haikal: so like how many cavemen had to clearly and effectively articulate their go to market strategy while they were running from?
George Haikal: How many people have to think about pushing past another boat while throwing spears at a deer?
George Haikal: So how do we adjust.
George Haikal: and Neil kind of hit on this. But how do we make the most of the benefits of this elevated state while minimizing the negatives?
George Haikal: The worst thing you can do is fight it. You can't, I mean, now got our health check people in the room. But who's ever had general anesthesia
George Haikal: you have you ever to see how long you can stay awake when they give it to you?
George Haikal: You you can't. It doesn't work out
George Haikal: it's the same thing here. The hormones that are pumped into your body are going to work the way they're supposed to, and there's not much you can do to to prevent that from happening.
George Haikal: and you don't want to trick yourself into not having this response either. If you're focused on getting rid of your anxiety, you're not focused on the task at hand. And that's where most people run into problems.
George Haikal: So there are generally 2 ways. People respond to stress. And it's really important to understand which camp you fall into
George Haikal: Most of you probably know where you sit at this point. But some people speed up. They try to think and do everything at once, and think 10 steps ahead and answer every question in one go.
George Haikal: and then others slow down.
George Haikal: They experience their mind going blank. They try to push all the anxious feelings out and get rid of it.
George Haikal: If you understand your response, it can help you recognize and what, when it's happening to you and use the same strategies to pull you back in. So do you all know where you are
George Haikal: on on the side of it. Speed up. Slow down.
George Haikal: Thank you.
George Haikal: Yeah.
George Haikal: Speed up.
George Haikal: I'm I'm a speed up. I don't know if y'all could tell from this talk.
George Haikal: He's doing great.
George Haikal: Yeah.
George Haikal: so like, I mentioned earlier, the biggest problem people run into is that they focus so much on their stress response that they speed up or freeze. That's okay and normal.
George Haikal: The goal is to recognize what when it happens and pull yourself back into the moment. So take advantage of your mind's increased focus and lock in at the task on the task at hand, and pull yourself back into the next step you need to take.
George Haikal: Here's 1 option how you can do it.
George Haikal: So breathing is critical here all the time.
George Haikal: but there's a little more to it.
George Haikal: So, taking a deep breath all the way in all the way out with a longer exhale than inhale, is a way to bring yourself into a calmer state, similar to the stress hormones that you're experiencing when you're anxious or nervous. This materially alters your physiological state, and if you do it, your body has no choice but to calm down.
George Haikal: relaxing your muscles also does the same thing. You might need active, tense muscles to run from a bear, but you don't take a pitch.
George Haikal: I usually carry the tension in my shoulders when I intentionally let them drop. It signals to my body that it's okay to relax.
George Haikal: Finally, pull your focus back in like we were talking about earlier. Don't try to boil the ocean. Think about 10 things at once. Answer your whole Q&A in one. Go focus on the next bite size, step. So for me it could be the next turn in a river for, you guys, it could be the next sentence, trust your preparation will take you from there.
George Haikal: Finally, always remember, you're in control. Time isn't going to speed up on you, and it won't stop for you, either. You're in full control to dictate the pace as you see fit. Make sure to slow down. If you feel that things are moving too fast, and don't feel afraid to take a pause. If you need more time to think.
George Haikal: pauses, feel way longer when you're on stage than they do to the audience, like imperceptible to the audience. Honestly take that extra breath if you need it.
George Haikal: All right round 2.
George Haikal: Take a look.
George Haikal: Close your eyes. You hear me.
George Haikal: You're in Google's product launch room.
George Haikal: You're in the back of the auditorium. You can hear the buzz of the other Ceos in the green room behind you.
George Haikal: You're walking up to the front of the stage.
George Haikal: You hear your music playing and it fades out.
George Haikal: the lights are dim. You can see the 100 something people there to watch you.
George Haikal: Now open your eyes.
George Haikal: Take a note and acknowledge the state that you're in
George Haikal: place that thought on a shelf, and accept that your body is reacting normally.
George Haikal: Take a slow, deep breath on your time.
George Haikal: Let your shoulders drop, pull your focus onto the 1st sentence of your pitch, and it's game time.
George Haikal: These mental reps are vital to training your body to perform under pressure. Anthony used to. I don't recommend this, or I can't endorse this, but he would lay in bed at night and work himself up like intentionally stress himself out to practice, calming himself down and acknowledging and understanding and working with the stress response.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: if you want good sleep, maybe skip this part, but the principle still applies for me. This was covered by mental grace visualizations.
George Haikal: and just like you practice your pitch, practice your breathing and your focus in anxiety, inducing situations, even if they only exist in your head. This will help you build that muscle until it's like second nature.
George Haikal: And then last little addendum. Some memorization tips.
George Haikal: I, what really works for me is sectioning things out. I'm sure a lot of you are are focusing on sort of section by section, sentence by sentence. Memorization.
George Haikal: One thing I'll hit on is to make sure to practice the transitions between sentences. When I was memorizing my speeches, I would always get lost at the end of a sentence like I would finish the sentence fine, and then it would be like.
George Haikal: Okay, what now? And I wouldn't necessarily like I I would need to practice those transitions from sentence to sentence to make sure I had an easy flow into the next point.
George Haikal: and then, when you're working on your ear, Q. And A,
George Haikal: let them know what your weak points are, let them know which areas in the QA. You're less secure so they can help pull you back in and sort of be on. Call to bring you back to your content.
George Haikal: Practice the other.
George Haikal: It's.